There are many aspects that cause the years of experience to be an unreliable measurements of the skill level
Aspects like individual talent and eagerness strongly influence the skill level after a specific training period. Some indivuals may be quicker learners or train multiple times per week while other are slower or train very rarely. However, their years of experience may be the same. On the contrary, the grade is a much more reliable measurement for the skill level. In order to obtain a specific grade, multiple Professionals, trained to judge ones abilities, must come to the conclusion that the grade in question is adequate for the individuals skill level. This assesment is independent of talent or eagerness. Furthermore, the evaluation is based on criterias that emerged .... many people.. 

The unrelibility of the years of experience is visually indicated by plotting it against the grade. (see plot). 
.. grade changes but years of expereince not in large parts, mainly changes only for very high grades.
Furthermore, there is the aspect that individuals may write down the number of years of experience without any proof, while a grade has more validity. Conspiciously, the dataset contains two participoants of ages 28 and 29 with 28 and 29 years of experiece. It is rather unlikely that they trained karate since the day they were born.
If we exclude these two particapnts and again plot the yewears of experence against the grade the unreliability of the yeares of experience becomes even more apparent.   

It should be noted that this does not consider the possibility of participants simply not partaking in the exams even though there skill level may be high enough. However, there is no way to verify such cases. The only way would be asking th eparticipants which is impossible due to their anonimity.

Also large data gaps in the years of experience. See plot. For instance no data between 13 and 18, 19 and 28 as well as 30 and 34 years. Although also not perfeclty balanced, at least the grade distribution has no gaps. 
This is better suited for the goal of modifying based on specific criteria. 

In conclusion is is found that for this datset and use case, the years of experience present a less reliable measurement of the skill level than the grade.


--------------



